# fog-of-war

### 2023-09-19 17:02 - redefining "fog of war"

I decided that I want to talk about an idea. the thing is (for me personally), I really dislike fog of war -- because it just seems so unrealistic that a unit simply cannot see much further than a few metres in front of them. I have this idea that all things are out there (and can be knowable), but they're not all understood -- meaning that I don't have an interface to understand it. encryption intends to obfuscate and increase the difficulty of understanding something, which is fine. you know something is there, but you don't know what it is: just like an encrypted file.
  when I look out into the distance, my brain looks out and identifies objects by certain propertties. this is what I intend to replicate -- so now imagine a game with fog of war in it (there are lots), and now imagine that the entire world can be seen (maps and intelligence would be top priority -- like you think NASA *doesn't* know what they're landing on looks like? of course they know what the terrain looks like, but it's those entites that they don't know what looks like). I find it very hard to believe in these games that they have all this super futuristic stuff, but their eyes are only capable of seeing a few feet in front of them
therefore, imagine now a game world where all terrain is knowable and has been seen. when I look off into the distance, let's say I'm using radar -- well then those are blips on a screen, but if I'm looking out with my eyes, I see blobs and blurs that don't quite understand what it is yet. the blurs and blobs are somethting like a hash or digest of an entity -- not fully known.
  imagine now that when the game is connected to, all entites on the map *are known*, but they're not known directly: they are a hash or a low definition definition of the entity. the point of the game is to use clues to figure out what it is. like if it's a hawk and hawks circle in the sky at 30mph, then I can deduce that entity is a hawk, and so now when I look out on the map, I can see all the hawks properly -- though before that I just saw them as blobs because I hadn't figured out those signatures are hawks.
a system where the signature of something is determined by physical characteristics, like angelyness of a model, or colour and shape, yet leave all of the spiritual characterisstics out of the signature, and I don't find out what they *really are*, until they cast something or use an ability. what I mean is, this style of subtrafuge is actually the future -- because information is going to be so ubiquitous that getting information is going to be easy, but actually *understanding* the contents of the information will be the real deal. there are a lot of fakers out there, so here's their chance to figure out how to put an entity into the game (something exists here -- because it passed some rules for creation/instantiation/manifestation), and it has this signature/hash which tells everyone what it is. what exactly that thing is, gives it its capabilities and its properties.
  it also dramatically increases the number of "middlemen" or "trusted partners" because let's say my entity is a guy with all the standard normal attributs, but one of the attributes is a supercorp part, and those properties are determined/fetched from supercorp -- so it's a real entity in the game, but it depends on another entity for its power/magic/mana/whatever. those entites then become sort of like brokers to allow indivduals to no longer be fully individual (more points of failure).
however, the idea of each entity having a signature, and those entites having a sort of "cost" to figuring it out is a new element of game design I hadn't thought of. if I'm in the game and I see a hash flying around, I'm going to want to figure out what entity that is though some means of discovery. that m5ans of discovery must cOntain code where noticing certain attributes and behaviours (or some other kind of revelation process, the entity gets fully figured out and its full properties are known (no longer just pososition/rotation in space valus)). the better the intel a player has on the global set of entites, the better they understand the world. additionally, there will be more thought given on what entiites want to be made unique and if there's a heierarchy to their uniqueness. lots of interesting things to think about when all things are known, but not understood.
