# NEPTUNE DIFFICULTY

in one of the very verst episodes of JD's insula mortis map, JD talked about BigWolfChris being so good at the game, he's playing the game on a custom difficulty: neptune difficulty. I took JD seriously and believed him, so before jumping in and just watching someone (especially if it's something I want to be able to do), I tried to figure out what it would be like to do what they do, so I think a few weeks(?) thinking about how I would play the game on neptune difficulty. I figured "neutune difficulty" must mean that chris has all the difficulty setting set to max). JD appeared to me to be genuinely jealous of chris' capacity at the game (JD was in the middle of a struggle), and so he named chris' truck "Little Wolf Chris" (or something like that).
  one thing to know about me, is I read a lot into how emotion is conveyed in voice, body language, etc. because it's basically impossible for me to "read" someone, and so I make a lot of assumptions (because indecision sucks), which -- I am getting better, but I'm not always the best at. I may be reading into it wrong, but vocalising my assumptions, I just figured chris was just this like really good at playing the game guy, right -- and so I tried to visualise him playing the game. I never had any intention of ever watching him (cause why would I? it sounds like trying to compete with him or someththing), and so I just imagined this guy playing in my mind. (I often imagine someone in your mind, knowing they're going to look way different, but then I go ahead and imagine them, anyway)
anyway, one day I had the desire to finally see how chris was playing the game on max difficulty, and so I watched him. he took it really slow and methodical. one thing that impressed me is he had many trucks lower than the max number (JD and myself always had the limit), and on top of that he *always* had stable. I noticed thatt he also had very interconnected builds, and he just ran pipes and belts all over the place, putting bridges between the sections, allowing each piece to contribute and utilise some of the resources that were fed in and out. I also noticed he had a lot of buffer boxes everywhere as well.
  it inspired me a lot to think about things being so spread out like that, because I think in modules, and try to get my modules to interconnect, but his base was like this cascade of things that expanded out in time: this one needs this, this one provides this, this mine is here, and it looked to me (I only watched a few of the early vods) like it had just grown outward organically, like an metalic factory hive. I noticed that he just notices that he needs a thing, and one thing builds another, so let's put it here, and run the belts/pipes to where they need to go.
    like I said, I see all things as "units"~(ones) that have inputs and outputs (absorption and emission), and so I like to quantify what those inputs and outputs are, to be able to make them physical, so I'm very interested in limiting an idea into a physical form. the form and ideas (limited) is just the starting place, as the physical realm is **the most continuous change**; if there's one thing you can depend on, it's that things will constantly being changed.
  so instead of seeing this base that is done and sustainable: a unit unto itself: an isolated island with specific inputs and outputs, his base, is something that appeared to me to be constantly growing outward.
    that idea gave me an image of a -- when mold or mycyllium growing, do you notice how it spreads out and gets stronger from a single infection point: it looks like these tendrils that connect ot otherh points eventually, then spreading in three dimensions to consume the entire volume: the substrate? well, like that: one town is like one of those things, and it's a town with a bunch of infrastructure around it, tthat provides all of its own people for its machines: plug a steel town in between two farming towns so they have a lot of food for all the smelters (18 people each + 5-10 for the casters -- or something like that). a duplicatable small town module complete with different inputs and outputs.
so here's the thing: since I believed JD, I decided that I would try out this neptune difficulty thing for myself... and I did it. I made it up to "level 2.5" (see [blueprints](TODO)), where I'm just about to make electronics 2. the base is basically low management sustainable at the moment (meaning it can easily run for another 100-200 years or so without much effort.

so then, today JD posts [this video](https://youtu.be/2CiX2Sow0rQ) about an island tour that really has a lot of fantastic ideas in it. I had planned to do a lot of ideas that they also had implemented and stuff -- which is so cool. it's really inspiring and suff. I thought a lot about how I would want to perform a very similar thing for my island (also the beach), but *I don't feel like I want to invest the time to do it right now*. so anyway, what I decided I wanted to do is to collect a whole bunch of ideas and talk about a few design ideas here, and then just pass it allong so that anyone who wants to can finish the island.

### the experience

I really like playing in neptune difficulty quite a lot, because it actually feels like things cost a lot more and require a lot more effort to do. the slowness of the game and the extra effort it takes to collect enough construction parts (and to have the majority my diggers terraforming), I have to use a lot of contracts, so it requires that I am building the base around my contracts and supplementing the contracts with mining. unity tends to be the limiting factor, as I often times have tons of parts, but no unity to build them with,  or I'm slowed by the terrain still being unsuitable -- piers take a while to build.

### my goal

what I want to do is to essentially flatten the entire island, expanding into having just more and more resources (hundreds of docks), producing exorbinate resources -- and then what I want to do is to build a mod. it's a very simple mod that just uses JSON http requests, allowing islands to trade between each other (at a unity cost/gain of course), and so then these islands can get rid of the materials that they want and/or export one resource for another.
  as an example, let's say my island has lots and lots of smelters. I import the ore from others who provide it (all the noobs starting out wanting to trade their natural resources for stuff they need to get sustainable). I then offer the steel/copper/iron at nice rates for others to import.
  the main factor here in the implementation of this is LOCATION, LOCATION, LOCATION -- because my island will be closer to other islands that provide some things more than others, so some islands are much more expensive for diesel costs (long distance, but good deal) than others. it all depends on resources that the noobs are all willing to sell off. (obviously islands located in the middle of a massive oil area are quite lucrative, I'm sure).
the whole effort here is a massive joke, because I want to pump up production to the maximum scale possible (I imagine it scales linearly, but there are difficulties with things like populations, so small towns is actually better) -- and so with hundreds of cargo docks and massive scale production, I'll put my stats on the top and list the inputs: .... (there are lots of them) outputs: (for example) 400 CP4 per minute!!!! (costing thousand and thousands of lumber and concrete slabs, water, etc).
  think about it: players will build these *massive* bases, to be able to offer out to others 80 microchips per minute!!!! then you have these other guys that are importing 8000 microchips per minute (from 100 noobs) and producing 8000 CP5(?), which is costing lots and lots of power, servers, etc. it's like dividing by two to get to infinity: it takes an infinite amount of effort. (FINE, it's a joke to me, OK... I have a sense of humour).
it's the most epic island measuring contest, and one the things that I think would be really cool is to find a way to make the islands infinititely expandable (something like a tool that can expand the island boundaries in the save file, allowing for even more docks -- growing outward, like mycellium).

### initial setup: [jan 2, 0001](/bnd-0001-02-01.save)
### [more?]
### starter base: [apirl 1, 400](/bnd-0400-01-04.save)
