# fog-of-war

### 2023-09-19 17:02 - redefining "fog of war"

I decided that I want to talk about an idea. the thing is (for me personally), I really dislike fog of war -- because it just seems so unrealistic that a unit simply cannot see much further than a few metres in front of them. I have this idea that all things are out there (and can be knowable), but they're not all understood -- meaning that I don't have an interface to understand it. encryption intends to obfuscate and increase the difficulty of understanding something, which is fine. you know something is there, but you don't know what it is: just like an encrypted file.
  when I look out into the distance, my brain looks out and identifies objects by certain propertties. this is what I intend to replicate -- so now imagine a game with fog of war in it (there are lots), and now imagine that the entire world can be seen (maps and intelligence would be top priority -- like you think NASA *doesn't* know what they're landing on looks like? of course they know what the terrain looks like, but it's those entites that they don't know what looks like). I find it very hard to believe in these games that they have all this super futuristic stuff, but their eyes are only capable of seeing a few feet in front of them
therefore, imagine now a futuristic game world where everything is all mapped out, and all terrain is knowable and has been seen. when I look off into the distance, let's say I'm using radar -- well then those are blips on a screen; however, if I'm looking out with my eyes, I see blobs and blurs that I don't quite understand what it is yet (for the stuff not known). the blurs and blobs are somethting like a hash or digest of an entity -- not fully known.
  imagine now that when the game is connected to, all entites on the map *are known* or can be known the server sends out updates on that position, but the only thing that's known is that a hash or a low definition definition of the entity that size exists at that location. the point of the game is to use clues to figure out what that hash really is. for example, if hawks circle in the sky at 30mph, and the entity is circling at 30mph, then I can deduce that entity is a hawk, and so now when I look out on the map, I can see all the hawks properly, where as before they were just blobs/hashes.
a system where the signature of something is determined by physical characteristics only (like angelyness of a model, or colour and shape), yet leave all of the spiritual characterisstics out of the signature, and I don't find out what they *really are*, until they cast something or use an ability. what I mean is, this style of subtrafuge is actually the future -- because information is going to be so ubiquitous that getting information is going to be easy, but actually *understanding* the contents of the information will be the real deal. there are no more any fakers out there, because they really did put an entity into the game (something exists here -- because it passed game rules for creation/instantiation/manifestation), and it has this signature/hash which tells everyone what it is there. at the beginning only the server and the creator of the entity know what that signature resolves to, but after discovering what exactly that thing is, its capabilities and/or visual properties are added.
  there's another good aspect to this redfinition of fog of war, in that it dramatically increases the number of "middlemen" or "trusted partners" that can exist in a game because let's say my entity is a guy with all the standard normal attributs, but one of the attributes is a supercorp part, and those properties are determined/fetched from supercorp -- so it's a real entity in the game, but it depends on another entity for its power/magic/mana/whatever. those entites then become sort of like brokers to allow indivduals to no longer be fully individual (more points of failure).
however, the idea of each entity having a signature, and those entites having a sort of "cost" to figuring it out is a new element of game design I hadn't thought of previously. if I'm in the game and I see a hash flying around, I'm going to want to figure out what entity that is though some means of discovery. that m5ans of discovery must cOntain code where noticing certain attributes and behaviours (or some other kind of revelation/disrobing process, the entity gets fully figured out and its full properties are known (no longer just position/rotation in space valus)). the better the intel a player has on the global set of entites, the better they understand the world. additionally, there will be more thought given on what/which entiites want to have unique signatures and if there's a heierarchy to their uniqueness.
lots of interesting things to think about when all things are known, but not understood.
